README.md, before:

# DnD++ - Dungeon and Dragons inspired Programming Language

Welcome to my first experiment building my own programming language which is showcased on my YouTube Channel ILTPWC.

DnD++ is a Dungeons & Dragons-inspired programming language designed for those who want to bring some excitement and creativity to their coding adventures. 
This project provides a lexer, parser, interpreter, and compiler for the DnD++ programming language, as well as example code to demonstrate its syntax and usage.

And please don't take it to serious!


## Language Overview

The DnD++ programming language uses a syntax inspired by Dungeons & Dragons adventures, with a focus on storytelling and imaginative descriptions. Variable declarations, for example, are written as follows:

`In the realm of Variables, a legendary hero was born called christian. The hero wields a mighty Sword, forged with the power of 10`

This declaration is equivalent to the following code in C++:

`int christian = 10;`

## Getting Started

To start using the DnD++ programming language, clone this repository and install the required dependencies:

`git clone https://github.com/your-username/dndpp.git`

Once you have the repository cloned, follow the instructions in the subsequent sections to tokenize, parse, interpret, and compile DnD++ code.

This project includes a lexer, parser, interpreter, and compiler for the DnD++ programming language. You can find their implementations in their subfolders lexer, parser, compiler, interpreter, respectively.

To tokenize, parse, interpret, or compile DnD++ code, follow these steps:

1. Write your DnD++ code in a text file, e.g., example.dndpp.
2. Use the provided Python scripts to perform the desired operation on your code:
3. Tokenize: python lexer.py example.dndpp
4. Parse: python parser.py example.dndpp
5. Interpret: python interpreter.py example.dndpp
6. Compile: python compiler.py example.dndpp
7. Review the output of the operation and continue with your development.

And the most important think have fun! and try to play the adventure with your DnD Party.


### Lexer

ToDo: Add Content


### Parser

ToDo: Add Content


### Interpreter

ToDo: Add Content


### Compiler

ToDo: Add Content


## Examples

The following example demonstrates how to declare and initialize a variable in the DnD++ programming language:

`In the realm of Variables, a legendary hero was born called healthPoints. The hero wields a mighty Sword, forged with the power of 100`


## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community! If you have any ideas, suggestions, or improvements for the DnD++ programming language, please feel free to submit an issue or pull request.

## Support

If you want to support me please consider to like the YouTube Video about the DnD++ Language and subscribe to my Channel ILTPWC(http://www.youtube.com/@ILTPWC)

Commit message:

added lexer, parser, interpreter, compiler draft

README.md, after:

# DnD++ - Dungeon and Dragons inspired Programming Language

Welcome to my first experiment building my own programming language which is showcased on my YouTube Channel ILTPWC.

DnD++ is a Dungeons & Dragons-inspired programming language designed for those who want to bring some excitement and creativity to their coding adventures. 
This project provides a lexer, parser, interpreter, and compiler for the DnD++ programming language, as well as example code to demonstrate its syntax and usage.

And please don't take it to serious!


## Language Overview

The DnD++ programming language uses a syntax inspired by Dungeons & Dragons adventures, with a focus on storytelling and imaginative descriptions. Variable declarations, for example, are written as follows:

`In the realm of Variables, a legendary hero was born called christian. The hero wields a mighty Sword, forged with the power of 10`

This declaration is equivalent to the following code in C++:

`int christian = 10;`

## Getting Started

To start using the DnD++ programming language, clone this repository and install the required dependencies:

`git clone https://github.com/your-username/dndpp.git`

Once you have the repository cloned, follow the instructions in the subsequent sections to tokenize, parse, interpret, and compile DnD++ code.

This project includes a lexer, parser, interpreter, and compiler for the DnD++ programming language. You can find their implementations in their subfolders lexer, parser, compiler, interpreter, respectively.

To tokenize, parse, interpret, or compile DnD++ code, follow these steps:

1. Write your DnD++ code in a text file, e.g., example.dndpp.
2. Use the main.py example.dndpp to generate a .asm file
3. Assembe the .asm file with NASM and link the object file with GCC after that generate the executable

`nasm -f elf64 example.asm -o example.o`
`gcc example.o -o example`
`./example`


And the most important think have fun! and try to play the adventure with your DnD Party.


### Lexer

ToDo: Add Content


### Parser

ToDo: Add Content


### Interpreter

ToDo: Add Content


### Compiler

ToDo: Add Content


## Examples

The following example demonstrates how to declare and initialize a variable in the DnD++ programming language:

`In the realm of Variables, a legendary hero was born called healthPoints. The hero wields a mighty Sword, forged with the power of 100`


## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community! If you have any ideas, suggestions, or improvements for the DnD++ programming language, please feel free to submit an issue or pull request.

## Support

If you want to support me please consider to like the YouTube Video about the DnD++ Language and subscribe to my Channel ILTPWC(http://www.youtube.com/@ILTPWC)
